README.md, before:

# Invoice Agent

An automated invoice processing system using n8n and a Python backend to extract data from invoices, match products against a database, and learn from manual corrections.

<img src="assets/Screenshot_UI.png" alt="Streamlit App" width="800">

## Features

- **Automated Invoice Parsing**: Uses Google's Gemini 2.5 Flash model to extract structured data from uploaded invoice files (e.g., PDF, PNG, JPG).
- **Product Fuzzy Matching**: Matches extracted line items against a product database using a combination of alias map and fuzzy matching algorithms.
- **Self-Learning Alias System**: Learns from manually corrected product matches to improve accuracy over time. A human-in-the-loop workflow.
- **Containerized**: The entire application is containerized using Docker and managed with Docker Compose for easy setup and deployment.
- **Web Interface**: Includes a Streamlit application for interacting with the uploading and product matching functionality.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Docker Desktop
- A Google Gemini API Key
- A Google Drive API Credential (GCP)

### Setup

1. **Clone the repository:**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/ghnmqdtg/Invoice-Agent.git
   cd Invoice-Agent
   ```

2. **Run the docker:**

   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

3. **Configure n8n:**

   - Go to `http://localhost:8080` and login with your n8n account.
   - Import `workflow/Invoice_Agent.json` into your n8n workflow.
   - Update the Gemini API Key in the `Extract Invoice Data` node within the n8n workflow.
   - Create a folder in Google Drive and add it to `Save result to Google Drive` node.

4. **Prepare product database:**

   - Put product database in `DB` folder and rename it to `product_dataset.xlsx`.
   - Convert the xlsx to csv.
     ```bash
     python utils/excel_converter.py
     ```

5. **Set the config.json:**

   - Copy the example config file:
     ```bash
     cp python-scripts/config.json.example python-scripts/config.json
     ```
   - Update the `N8N_PROCESS_INVOICE_WEBHOOK` and `N8N_GDRIVE_UPLOAD_WEBHOOK` in `python-scripts/config.json` with the webhook URLs of the n8n workflow.

6. **Initialize Streamlit App:**

   Run the following command to initialize the Streamlit app.

   ```bash
   streamlit run python-scripts/streamlit_app.py
   ```

## Workflow

The invoice processing workflow is orchestrated by two main services running in Docker containers:

- **n8n Service**: This workflow automation tool orchestrates the entire pipeline, from receiving an invoice file to calling the AI model and our Python service.
- **Python Service**: A Flask-based web service that handles the logic for product matching and maintains a database of product aliases. Since n8n's code nodes have limitations on library imports, this service handles the more complex logic.

### n8n Workflow

<img src="assets/Screenshot_workflow.png" alt="Invoice Processing Workflow" width="800">

The n8n workflow automates the entire process, from receiving an invoice to learning from user corrections. It's divided into two main parts as shown in the diagram:

**1. Uploading Invoice & Return the Detection Result in JSON**

This workflow is triggered when an invoice is uploaded.

- **`Listen to File Upload`**: A webhook node receives the invoice file from a client like the Streamlit app.
- **File Preparation**: The file is converted to a Base64 string and its MIME type is identified.
- **`Extract Invoice Data`**: The prepared file data is sent to the Google Gemini API to extract structured information. The prompt is provided in [Appendix](Appendix.md).
- **Data Processing**: The Gemini output is formatted into a JSON object, which is then sent to the Python service for product matching.
- **`Respond to Webhook`**: The final JSON, enriched with product matching results, is returned to the client.

**2. Uploading Reviewed JSON**

This workflow handles human-in-the-loop corrections to improve the system over time.

- **`Listen to the completed JSON Upload`**: A webhook receives the corrected JSON from the client.
- **Data Persistence**: The corrected JSON is saved to Google Drive for record-keeping.
- **Learning from Corrections**: The data is also sent to the `/update-alias` endpoint of the Python service. The service updates its product alias map, which improves future matching accuracy.
- **`Respond to Webhook`**: A confirmation is sent back to the client.

### Sequence Diagram

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant User
    participant Streamlit App
    participant n8n as n8n Workflow
    participant GeminiAPI as Google Gemini API
    participant PythonService as Python Service
    participant GDrive as Google Drive

    Note over User, PythonService: Initial Invoice Processing
    User->>Streamlit App: Uploads invoice file
    Streamlit App->>n8n: POST to Invoice Webhook with file
    activate n8n
    n8n->>GeminiAPI: Extract data from invoice
    activate GeminiAPI
    GeminiAPI-->>n8n: Returns structured data
    deactivate GeminiAPI
    n8n->>PythonService: POST /process-invoice with extracted data
    activate PythonService
    PythonService-->>n8n: Returns data with matched products
    deactivate PythonService
    n8n-->>Streamlit App: Responds with processed data
    deactivate n8n
    Streamlit App->>User: Displays processed data for review

    Note over User, GDrive: Human-in-the-Loop Correction
    User->>Streamlit App: Corrects matches and submits
    Streamlit App->>n8n: POST to Reviewed JSON Webhook with corrections
    activate n8n
    n8n->>GDrive: Save corrected JSON
    n8n->>PythonService: POST /update-alias with corrections
    activate PythonService
    PythonService-->>n8n: Confirms alias update
    deactivate PythonService
    n8n-->>Streamlit App: Responds with success
    deactivate n8n
    Streamlit App->>User: Displays success message
```

### Human-in-the-Loop (HITL) & Alias Mapping Workflow

Sometimes the AI fails to match the items correctly. We need to manually correct the `matched_name` for these items in the frontend. The workflow is as follows:

1.  The user receives the processed JSON with unmatched items.
2.  They correct the `matched_name` for these items.
3.  The corrected JSON is submitted to a dedicated `Uploading Reviewed JSON` webhook in n8n. It triggers the `Update Alias` node, which calls the `/update-alias` endpoint on the Python service.
4.  Python service then updates the `product_alias.csv` with the corrected `original_name` as `alias_name`. Also, pair the `product_id` with the `alias_name`. This helps the workflow to match them in the next run.

## File Structure

```
.
├── workflow/
│   └── Invoice_Agent.json      # n8n workflow backup
├── docker-compose.yml          # Docker Compose configuration
├── DB/
│   └── product_dataset.csv     # Product database
├── utils/
│   ├── excel_converter.py      # Excel to CSV converter
│   └── prompt_converter.py     # Convert prompt to single line
├── README.md                   # This file
├── python-scripts/
│   ├── product_matching.py     # Main Flask app for product matching
│   ├── streamlit_app.py        # Streamlit UI for testing
│   ├── matching_methods/       # Product matching algorithms
│   ├── config.json.example     # Example config file
│   └── requirements.txt        # Python dependencies
└── shared/
    ├── product_db.csv          # Your master product list
    └── product_alias.csv       # Auto-generated alias list for learning
```

Commit message:

Docs: Add TODO list and remove fancy buzzword

README.md, after:

# Invoice Agent

An automated invoice processing system using n8n and a Python backend to extract data from invoices, match products against a database, and learn from manual corrections.

<img src="assets/Screenshot_UI.png" alt="Streamlit App" width="800">

## Features

- **Automated Invoice Parsing**: Uses Google's Gemini 2.5 Flash model to extract structured data from uploaded invoice files (e.g., PDF, PNG, JPG).
- **Product Fuzzy Matching**: Matches extracted line items against a product database using a combination of alias map and fuzzy matching algorithms.
- **Dynamic Alias Mapping**: Creates a mapping from invoice item names to product database entries based on user corrections, improving future accuracy.
- **Containerized**: The entire application is containerized using Docker and managed with Docker Compose for easy setup and deployment.
- **Web Interface**: Includes a Streamlit application for interacting with the uploading and product matching functionality.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Docker Desktop
- A Google Gemini API Key
- A Google Drive API Credential (GCP)

### Setup

1. **Clone the repository:**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/ghnmqdtg/Invoice-Agent.git
   cd Invoice-Agent
   ```

2. **Run the docker:**

   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

3. **Configure n8n:**

   - Go to `http://localhost:8080` and login with your n8n account.
   - Import `workflow/Invoice_Agent.json` into your n8n workflow.
   - Update the Gemini API Key in the `Extract Invoice Data` node within the n8n workflow.
   - Create a folder in Google Drive and add it to `Save result to Google Drive` node.

4. **Prepare product database:**

   - Put product database in `DB` folder and rename it to `product_dataset.xlsx`.
   - Convert the xlsx to csv.
     ```bash
     python utils/excel_converter.py
     ```

5. **Set the config.json:**

   - Copy the example config file:
     ```bash
     cp python-scripts/config.json.example python-scripts/config.json
     ```
   - Update the `N8N_PROCESS_INVOICE_WEBHOOK` and `N8N_GDRIVE_UPLOAD_WEBHOOK` in `python-scripts/config.json` with the webhook URLs of the n8n workflow.

6. **Initialize Streamlit App:**

   Run the following command to initialize the Streamlit app.

   ```bash
   streamlit run python-scripts/streamlit_app.py
   ```

## Workflow

The invoice processing workflow is orchestrated by two main services running in Docker containers:

- **n8n Service**: This workflow automation tool orchestrates the entire pipeline, from receiving an invoice file to calling the AI model and our Python service.
- **Python Service**: A Flask-based web service that handles the logic for product matching and maintains a database of product aliases. Since n8n's code nodes have limitations on library imports, this service handles the more complex logic.

### n8n Workflow

<img src="assets/Screenshot_workflow.png" alt="Invoice Processing Workflow" width="800">

The n8n workflow automates the entire process, from receiving an invoice to learning from user corrections. It's divided into two main parts as shown in the diagram:

**1. Uploading Invoice & Return the Detection Result in JSON**

This workflow is triggered when an invoice is uploaded.

- **`Listen to File Upload`**: A webhook node receives the invoice file from a client like the Streamlit app.
- **File Preparation**: The file is converted to a Base64 string and its MIME type is identified.
- **`Extract Invoice Data`**: The prepared file data is sent to the Google Gemini API to extract structured information. The prompt is provided in [Appendix](Appendix.md).
- **`Product Matching`**: The Gemini output is formatted into a JSON object, which is then sent to the Python service for product matching. The matching method is also provided in [Appendix](Appendix.md).
- **`Respond to Webhook`**: The final JSON, enriched with product matching results, is returned to the client.

**2. Uploading Reviewed JSON**

This workflow handles human-in-the-loop corrections to improve the system over time.

- **`Listen to the completed JSON Upload`**: A webhook receives the corrected JSON from the client.
- **Data Persistence**: The corrected JSON is saved to Google Drive for record-keeping.
- **Learning from Corrections**: The data is also sent to the `/update-alias` endpoint of the Python service. The service updates its product alias map, which improves future matching accuracy.
- **`Respond to Webhook`**: A confirmation is sent back to the client.

### Sequence Diagram

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant User
    participant Streamlit App
    participant n8n as n8n Workflow
    participant GeminiAPI as Google Gemini API
    participant PythonService as Python Service
    participant GDrive as Google Drive

    Note over User, PythonService: Initial Invoice Processing
    User->>Streamlit App: Uploads invoice file
    Streamlit App->>n8n: POST to Invoice Webhook with file
    activate n8n
    n8n->>GeminiAPI: Extract data from invoice
    activate GeminiAPI
    GeminiAPI-->>n8n: Returns structured data
    deactivate GeminiAPI
    n8n->>PythonService: POST /process-invoice with extracted data
    activate PythonService
    PythonService-->>n8n: Returns data with matched products
    deactivate PythonService
    n8n-->>Streamlit App: Responds with processed data
    deactivate n8n
    Streamlit App->>User: Displays processed data for review

    Note over User, GDrive: Human-in-the-Loop Correction
    User->>Streamlit App: Corrects matches and submits
    Streamlit App->>n8n: POST to Reviewed JSON Webhook with corrections
    activate n8n
    n8n->>GDrive: Save corrected JSON
    n8n->>PythonService: POST /update-alias with corrections
    activate PythonService
    PythonService-->>n8n: Confirms alias update
    deactivate PythonService
    n8n-->>Streamlit App: Responds with success
    deactivate n8n
    Streamlit App->>User: Displays success message
```

### Human-in-the-Loop (HITL) & Alias Mapping Workflow

Sometimes the AI fails to match the items correctly. We need to manually correct the `matched_name` for these items in the frontend. The workflow is as follows:

1.  The user receives the processed JSON with unmatched items.
2.  They correct the `matched_name` for these items.
3.  The corrected JSON is submitted to a dedicated `Uploading Reviewed JSON` webhook in n8n. It triggers the `Update Alias` node, which calls the `/update-alias` endpoint on the Python service.
4.  Python service then updates the `product_alias.csv` with the corrected `original_name` as `alias_name`. Also, pair the `product_id` with the `alias_name`. This helps the workflow to match them in the next run.

## File Structure

```
.
├── workflow/
│   └── Invoice_Agent.json      # n8n workflow backup
├── docker-compose.yml          # Docker Compose configuration
├── DB/
│   └── product_dataset.csv     # Product database
├── utils/
│   ├── excel_converter.py      # Excel to CSV converter
│   └── prompt_converter.py     # Convert prompt to single line
├── README.md                   # This file
├── python-scripts/
│   ├── product_matching.py     # Main Flask app for product matching
│   ├── streamlit_app.py        # Streamlit UI for testing
│   ├── matching_methods/       # Product matching algorithms
│   ├── config.json.example     # Example config file
│   └── requirements.txt        # Python dependencies
└── shared/
    ├── product_db.csv          # Your master product list
    └── product_alias.csv       # Auto-generated alias list for learning
```

## TODO List / Potential Features

- [ ] Fix: Improve the error handling
- [ ] Fix: Provide suggestion along with `unit` for the user to choose from
  > In my testing dataset, there are some items that have the same name but different unit. For example, there are two different items named `富士蘋果` with `unit` of `斤` and `KG`. We should provide a suggestion along with the `unit` to help the user to choose the correct one. Or, maybe we can involve the `unit` in the fuzzy matching to solve this problem.
- [ ] Feat: Quantify the accuracy of the matching and find out the best matching method
  > This project is just a prototype. Some of the choices are not deliberate enough. The matching method is one of them. The current method is `token_set_ratio`. We can try other methods in the `thefuzz` library.
- [ ] Feat: Provide matching suggestion for the user to choose from
  > We do have this feature on backend, but it's not implemented in Streamlit App.
- [ ] Test: Add unit tests
- [ ] Test: Handle multiple requests at once
  > Currently, I've only tested the service with one request at a time. We should test it with multiple requests at once.
- [ ] Feat: Batch processing multiple invoices at once (merge/separate)
- [ ] Feat: Let the Gemini do self-checking on product names
- [ ] Feat: Let the Gemini provide bbox (bounding box) for the invoice items
- [ ] Feat: Add interactive UI with the bbox
